THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES

By Sir Arthur Conan Doyle

A SCANDAL IN BOHEMIA

Chapter 1

To Sherlock Holmes she is always the woman. I have seldom heard him mention her under any other name. In his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex. It was not that he felt any emotion akin to love for Irene Adler. All emotions, and that one particularly, were abhorrent to his cold, precise but admirably balanced mind. He was, I take it, the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen, but as a lover he would have placed himself in a false position. He never spoke of the softer passions, save with a gibe and a sneer. They were admirable things for the observer—excellent for drawing the veil from men's motives and actions. But for the trained reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might throw a doubt upon all his mental results. Grit in a sensitive instrument, or a crack in one of his own high-power lenses, would not be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his. And yet there was but one woman to him, and that woman was the late Irene Adler, of dubious and questionable memory.

I had seen little of Holmes lately. My marriage had drifted us away from each other. My own complete happiness, and the home-centred interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master of his own establishment, were sufficient to absorb all my attention, while Holmes, who loathed every form of society with his whole Bohemian soul, remained in our lodgings in Baker Street, buried among his old books, and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition, the drowsiness of the drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen nature. He was still, as ever, deeply attracted by the study of crime, and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of observation in following out those clues, and clearing up those mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police.

It was a cold March morning, before daylight, when Holmes woke me up. He was standing by my bedside in his dressing-gown, with a candle in his hand.

"Sorry to wake you up, Watson," said he, "but I have had a most singular and unexpected experience."

"What is it, Holmes?" I asked, sitting up.

"I have been in such a flutter that I have not been able to think straight. It is the most extraordinary case that I have ever known. Will you come with me to the scene of the tragedy?"

"With pleasure," said I, rising and putting on my clothes.

It was a quarter-past nine when we started from home. We had a cold drive for about an hour and a half, and then we arrived at a comfortable-looking house, with a garden in front. The door was opened by a middle-aged woman, who seemed to be a housekeeper.

"Is Mr. Sherlock Holmes?" she asked.

"I am," said Holmes, looking at her with keen eyes.

"I am Mrs. Hudson," said she. "My husband has been very much upset about this affair."

"Pray, what is the matter?" asked Holmes.

"It is a very singular case," she said. "My husband's brother, Mr. John Openshaw, was found dead in his bed this morning. He had been shot through the head."

Holmes's face grew grave.

"This is indeed a mystery," said he. "Pray, let us have the details."

"My husband's brother was a young man of about twenty-five," said Mrs. Hudson. "He had been living in the house for about a month. He was a very quiet, gentlemanly young man, and we all liked him. He had a great deal of money with him, and he was always very careful of it. He had a desk in his room, and he kept his papers there. This morning the desk was found open, and the papers were scattered about the room."

"And the money?" asked Holmes.

"The money was all there," said Mrs. Hudson. "Not a penny was missing."

"Then the motive was not robbery," said Holmes. "What else was there?"

"There was a letter found on the table," said Mrs. Hudson. "It was addressed to my husband's brother, and it was signed 'K. K. K.'"

Holmes started up.

"K. K. K.!" he cried. "That is the most extraordinary part of the whole affair. What was the letter?"

"It was a very short letter," said Mrs. Hudson. "It said: 'If you wish to see your brother alive, come to the old house at seven o'clock to-night. Come alone, and bring no one with you.'"

"This is indeed a mystery," said Holmes. "We must go to the old house at once."

[This is a sample excerpt from The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes for demonstration purposes. The full work is in the public domain.]
